= CSW - An Interactive Library of Computer Science Algorithms for Ruby

CSW is a Web application providing facts and interactive tools pertaining to my CS Ruby Gem.
I wrote CS to teach myself how to write a real Ruby gem, and I'm writing CSW to learn how
to create a fun Web application in Ruby.

The source code for CS and CSW is in my two repositories on github:

  www.github.com/dgoldhirsch/cs
  www.github.com/dgoldhirsch/csw

You are very welcome to clone these things and make suggestions for improvements
and/or extensions.  I'd be very happy if there is any interest in the algorithms
and in having such a library.  So far, I haven't found a library like this for Ruby
(I'd like to hear about one if you find it--for one thing, I want to see how others have
solved the same problems, but also I will try to contribute my solutions to the other library
if they aren't already there).

== CS Gem

You can use the CS gem without CSW.  CS is described in detail in the README in its github source respository,
but here are the essential things you would need in order to use it.  First, install the gem from github:

  gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
  gem install dgoldhirsch-cs

Now you should be able to include it in your Ruby code.  There is a README.rdoc that comes
with the gem, but here is a sample of how to call one of the library methods:

  require 'rubygems' # Or, plan on using the -rubygems option of ruby
  require 'cs'
  y = CS::fibonacci(6) # returns 8 which is F(6) = 3 + 5

== CSW

The CSW Web site contains the on-line documentation for CS as well as interactive tools
in which you can run the algorithms, you can review the existing unit test cases (and run them), and
and you can post blog notes.  I'm hoping to integrate access to the blog in a sufficiently
convenient way so that (say) if you encounter an unexpected result--or, simply, if you
think of an improvement--while running the algorithm you can easily post a note about it,
and CS/CSW will become a real, open-source project.

I am hoping that CSW will be "fun".  This means that you should enjoy browsing the library of
problems and algorithms, and you should enjoy trying them out and reviewing their code.  I'm not
sure how much fun any algorithm library can be, really, but I'm doing my best at it.

CSW is still under development.  When/if I get it hosted, I'll update this document.  At
that point, I'll be learning how to get the Web site into the likely hit-list of Google
(as everyone knows, there's a lot more to professional computer programming than writing code).

== Boston Ruby Users Group (www.bostonrb.org)

This is a plug for the Boston Ruby Users Group which I joined when I got laid off from my
Java at a mid-sized, respected corporation.  I was told that the Ruby/Rails community was far
more friendly and welcoming than I was used to, and that if I came I'd again enjoy being a
programmer.  And, I have to say that I found this to be true.  I am enjoying myself enormously
while learning lots of interesting things from people who seem glad to welcome me as a colleague.
The difference between this and what I had come to accept as the daily lot of a professional,
senior software engineer is enormous.

It's great to talk with programmers who really care about the quality of their work.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 David C. Goldhirsch. See LICENSE for details.
